# SSEF-2024
Cardiovascular diseases, specifically heart attacks, have been described as a “notorious silent killer” by Health Minister Ong Ye Kung. On average, 34 people have heart attacks daily in Singapore. For some, an undiagnosed vulnerability to heart diseases could be life-costing, with only 59.3% of residents (40–74-year-old) participating in Chronic disease screenings (National Population Health Survey 2021), a drop from 66.3% in 2019.

This is problematic, given 1 in 3 Singaporeans may have underlying heart diseases that remain undetected. 

Given the perceived unpredictability of heart attacks occurring, the dataset our team is seeking is hard to find. An anonymous user on Kaggle posted a dataset we were looking for using a simulation of data by ChatGPT to bring Machine learning into question. This data is AI-generated information on simulated cases of heart attacks in categories of genetics such as Age, Ethnicity, Country of Birth, and lifestyle such as Exercise, Stress. Often, clusters, or patterns of heart attack cases, cannot be differentiated by the human mind. However, a Machine learning algorithm could potentially recognize trends, categorize vulnerabilities and classify persons at risk.

This is useful, as a proof-of-concept and from there, recommendation of the inclusion of Machine Learning in similar projects, such as the recent Project RESET supported by the government to gather data points from participants regarding heart disease risks. This also could be used in a first-round scanning of Singapore residents to classify those at risk, and to increase accessibility of diagnosis and treatment of heart diseases.
